# PXL
A drag-and-drop spreadsheet analysis application.

What Is PXL?
-------------

PXL, standing for "Python Excel", is an application intended to provide easy,
static methods for automated spreadsheet data analysis. It was designed to be
quick, sleek, user friendly, and as simple as possible to help Aerojet
Rocketdyne employees identify conflicts and resolve them faster than ever.

In its current form (1.0.00), it is capable of analyzing a specific set of
spreadsheets for PO/PPAR revision discrepancies. By building upon the
application's source code (written in Python, CSS, and PyQt C++), more methods
of data analysis with PXL can be achieved in the future.


How To Use PXL
--------------------------

1. Open PXL by clicking the shortcut icon or EXE file.

2. If it is necessary, specify your save path at the bottom of the window. This
is where you would like PXL to save its autogenerated spreadsheet when it is done.
Either click the Browse button and choose a folder or paste a path into the text
line.

3. Ensure that PXL is performing the desired analysis using the dropdown menu in
the top right corner, or it will not analyze your spreadsheet properly.
(PXL currently only does PO/PPAR Revision Check)

4. If you would like PXL to only display data for a certain project number in its
analysis, click the filter button and type the project number in the prompt, then
click OK. Please note: the filter is CASE SENSITIVE!

5. Drag and drop your spreadsheet (.xlsx) file into the main section of the
window and give PXL a moment to analyze the data and generate an analysis
spreadsheet for your viewing. The PXL analysis will open automatically once it has
been created.

Now you can access PXL and see the results, experiment with it, and hopefully
quickly grasp how things work.


How To Install PXL
-----------------------

There are two methods to begin using PXL on your computer:

Method 1 - RECOMMENDED: copy and paste a shortcut to PXL to your computer from the
MaxFung public folder on the V:/ drive. The shortcut file will be titled PXL with
an orange bracket logo. Paste it to your desired location for easy access.

* V:\MaxFung  is the path you can type into your file explorer, where the
shortcut file is contained.

Method 2 - For a more comprehensive install, you can move the PXL folder with the
actual EXE file to your computer from the V:/ drive. Simply go from
MaxFung->Apps->PXL and copy and paste this folder to anywhere on your drive.

* V:\MaxFung\Apps  is the path you can type into your file explorer, where the
PXL folder is contained.

** It is still recommended to create a shortcut icon to PXL once you've copied
the folder over, as the folder contains several dependencies and module
libraries PXL uses to work properly. Simply find the PXL.exe file, right click,
click create shortcut, and move the shortcut to your desired location. 

*** \\pwrutc.com\wrkgrp\public\MaxFung\PXL.lnk  is a clickable link to share PXL
on Outlook. If you want to quickly share PXL with your coworkers, use this.


Limitations
-----------------------

- Software

PXL has been compiled from its source code to be usable on any PC running Windows
XP or above via its executable file, from its resource folder.

DO NOT move the PXL.exe file from its PXL resource folder, which contains all of
the modules, dependencies, and resources required for the .exe to run. If you wish
to have the program solely on your computer, first copy the entire resource folder
containing the .exe as-is to anywhere on your computer. PXL will run as long as its
necessary files are within the same folder.

Unfortunately, due to limitations on compiling modules and libraries from Anaconda
2, the PXL resource folder is quite large, around 582 MB.

- Spreadsheets

For Open_EBS_PO_w_Suppliers_Report .xlsx spreadsheets, there are some weaknesses
inherent to the architecture and algorithms used in PXL. If the program is working
improperly or broken when trying to run analysis, refer to this list for a solution.

PXL checks the filetype before allowing a drop event in its main window. Ensure that
your spreadsheet file format is .xlsx before dragging and dropping. It also checks
the title of the spreadsheet to prevent the analysis of improper document formats.
If the capital letters 'PO' are not present, PXL will reject the file drop. If the
capital letters 'PXL_' (followed by an underscore) are in the title, it will also
reject the file drop.

PXL can accomodate changes to the order of the source Open_EBS_PO_w_Suppliers_Report
spreadsheet to a certain degree. Column order may be changed, as the algorithm checks
for the names of column titles and then defines their index/position.

PXL checks titles via matching key words to the contents of each column title cell.
Some titles are checked with exact lettering, capitalization, and punctuation, and
some are checked for if they contain a specific phrase. This means that if any titles
are changed, PXL may not be able to define them and will not run the analysis
properly. One strange issue in the Open_EBS_PO_w_Suppliers_Report file is column AF,
"PPAR Status", which only contains the raw text data "PPAR". This column must be the
last to contain the word "PPAR" in order for PXL to identify its position properly.
If it is placed before any other columns with "PPAR" in their titles, PXL will
incorrectly label the last of them as the PPAR Status column due to this issue.

PXL will return an error if it has done an analysis already and is attempting to
save again to the same path when that file is open. This is an issue in Excel
where the software cannot discriminate between the two files when one is already
open. If you want to run an analysis on a file with the same name on the same
path as an analysis which has already been completed, ensure that the older file
has been closed before doing so.


Further Development
-----------------------

- Running the Python Source Code

To edit and run the source code for PXL, first download Anaconda 2 from your PC's
Software Center. Anaconda will download all of the Python libraries and modules
required to run the source code properly. The source code is located at
* V:\MaxFung\Source_Code\PXL_Dev\PXL.py - DO NOT move or delete any of the folders
or files located in the PXL_Dev folder or the source code will not run properly.

Using the command line, first set your path to your Python
executable. If you download Anaconda 2 from the Software Center it should install
to: * C:\engapps\Anaconda2 . In the command line, input the following lines:
>   cd /d C:\engapps\Anaconda2
>   python V:\MaxFung\Source_Code\PXL_Dev\PXL.py

- Re-Compiling to .exe Using PyInstaller

If you have made changes to the source code and wish to recompile it to a usable
.exe, you must first download PyInstaller using the conda environment. Then you may
package the .py file and its resources to a .exe which can be used by other
employees who have not downloaded Anaconda 2.

To download PyInstaller, input the following lines on the command line:
>   cd /d C:\engapps\Anaconda2\Scripts
>   conda install -c conda-forge pyinstaller

To compile edited source code to .exe, use the command line and input:
>   cd /d C:\engapps\Anaconda2\Scripts
>   pyinstaller --onedir --noconsole --icon=V:\MaxFung\Source_Code\PXL_Dev\icon.ico PATH\TO\YOUR\PXL.py-FILE

Once PXL has been compiled, you will need to add the following folders to the PXL
resource folder for it to run properly:
	* C:\engapps\Anaconda2\Library\plugins\platforms
	* C:\engapps\Anaconda2\Library\plugins\imageformats
	* V:\MaxFung\Source_Code\PXL_Dev\fonts
	* V:\MaxFung\Source_Code\PXL_Dev\img
